README.md, before:

# Ask AI CLI

- [Ask AI CLI](#ask-ai-cli)
  - [🚀 Features](#-features)
  - [🔧 Setup Instructions](#-setup-instructions)
    - [Option 1: Quick Install via Script](#option-1-quick-install-via-script)
    - [Option 2: Manual Installation](#option-2-manual-installation)
  - [⚡ Usage Examples](#-usage-examples)
    - [General Question](#general-question)
    - [Interpret Previous Terminal Output](#interpret-previous-terminal-output)
    - [Use System Files as Additional Context](#use-system-files-as-additional-context)
    - [List Available System Files](#list-available-system-files)
    - [Error Analysis with Previous Output](#error-analysis-with-previous-output)
    - [Save Response to File (Markdown)](#save-response-to-file-markdown)
    - [Override Default Model](#override-default-model)
  - [☢️ Security Note](#️-security-note)
  - [🧩 Requirements](#-requirements)
  - [📄 License](#-license)


> **ℹ️ Usage of AI clarification:** To boost efficiency, many parts of the code, content, and even this README are AI-generated.

A simple, modular Linux CLI tool to interact with [OpenRouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai) using Python and `requests`. Ask general questions, analyze previous command-line output, load system-specific instructions, and save responses to files — all from your terminal.

---

## 🚀 Features

* Ask general AI questions via CLI
* Feed previous terminal output via stdin
* Analyze images with vision-capable AI models
* Extract and analyze text from PDF documents
* Load predefined pattern instructions from `patterns/` folder
* Output responses to Markdown, JSON, or plain text
* Supports default model via config file
* Override model easily via CLI
* List available system files for quick selection
* No bulky SDKs — pure Python with `requests`

---

## 🔧 Setup Instructions

### Option 1: Quick Install via Script

The installer handles:

✔️ Python virtual environment setup
✔️ Dependency installation
✔️ Shell alias creation
✔️ Initial configuration template


```bash
git clone https://github.com/ngroegli/askai-cli
cd askai-cli
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

After installation, edit your configuration:

```bash
nano ~/.askai_config.yml
```

Example content:

```yaml
api_key: "your_openrouter_api_key"
default_model: "openai/gpt-4o"
default_vision_model: "anthropic/claude-3-opus-20240229"
base_url: "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1/chat/completions"
```

Reload your shell:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc   # or ~/.bashrc
```

---

### Option 2: Manual Installation

For manual control:

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ngroegli/askai-cli
cd askai-cli
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Copy the example config:

```bash
cp config/config_example.yml ~/.askai_config.yml
```

Edit `~/.askai_config.yml` with your API key and preferences.

5. Create an alias for easy access:

```bash
alias askai="python /full/path/to/askai/askai.py"
```

Add this to your `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, or `.profile`, then reload your shell:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc   # or ~/.bashrc
```

Alternatively, for true system-wide installation:

```bash
chmod +x askai.py
sudo ln -s /full/path/to/askai/askai.py /usr/local/bin/askai
```

---

## ⚡ Usage Examples

### General Question

```bash
askai -q "What is the capital of Japan?"
```

### Interpret Previous Terminal Output

```bash
ls -la | askai -q "Explain this output."
```

### Use Pattern Files as Additional Context

```bash
askai -up log_interpretation -i /var/log/auth.log
```

Pattern files live inside the `patterns/` folder and contain reusable instructions for the AI.

### Analyze an Image

```bash
askai -img /path/to/image.jpg -q "What can you see in this image?"
```

The tool automatically uses a vision-capable model when images are provided. Supported image formats include JPG, PNG, GIF, and WebP.

### Analyze a PDF Document

```bash
askai -pdf /path/to/document.pdf -q "Summarize this document."
```

Sends the PDF content directly to the AI for analysis using the format specified in the OpenRouter documentation. The file must have a `.pdf` extension to be processed as a PDF document. If a non-PDF file is provided, it will be treated as a regular text file.

### List Available Pattern Files

```bash
askai --list-patterns
```

Displays all files available under `patterns/`.

### Error Analysis with Previous Output

```bash
cat nonexistent.txt 2>&1 | askai -q "Why can't I read this file?"
```

### Save Response to File (Markdown)

```bash
askai -q "List 5 AI use cases" -o output.md -f md
```

### Override Default Model

```bash
askai -q "Tell me a joke" -m "anthropic/claude-3-opus-2024-06-20"
```

## ☢️ Security Note

Your API key is stored locally in `~/.askai_config.yml`. Ensure this file is excluded from version control with `.gitignore`.

---

## 🧩 Requirements

* Python 3.7+
* Dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

---

## 📄 License

[Please refer to GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 3, 29 June 2007](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Added pdf url img url feature

README.md, after:

# Ask AI CLI

- [Ask AI CLI](#ask-ai-cli)
  - [🚀 Features](#-features)
  - [🔧 Setup Instructions](#-setup-instructions)
    - [Option 1: Quick Install via Script](#option-1-quick-install-via-script)
    - [Option 2: Manual Installation](#option-2-manual-installation)
  - [⚡ Usage Examples](#-usage-examples)
    - [General Question](#general-question)
    - [Interpret Previous Terminal Output](#interpret-previous-terminal-output)
    - [Use System Files as Additional Context](#use-system-files-as-additional-context)
    - [List Available System Files](#list-available-system-files)
    - [Error Analysis with Previous Output](#error-analysis-with-previous-output)
    - [Save Response to File (Markdown)](#save-response-to-file-markdown)
    - [Override Default Model](#override-default-model)
  - [☢️ Security Note](#️-security-note)
  - [🧩 Requirements](#-requirements)
  - [📄 License](#-license)


> **ℹ️ Usage of AI clarification:** To boost efficiency, many parts of the code, content, and even this README are AI-generated.

A simple, modular Linux CLI tool to interact with [OpenRouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai) using Python and `requests`. Ask general questions, analyze previous command-line output, load system-specific instructions, and save responses to files — all from your terminal.

---

## 🚀 Features

* Ask general AI questions via CLI
* Feed previous terminal output via stdin
* Analyze images with vision-capable AI models
* Extract and analyze text from PDF documents
* Load predefined pattern instructions from `patterns/` folder
* Output responses to Markdown, JSON, or plain text
* Supports default model via config file
* Override model easily via CLI
* List available system files for quick selection
* No bulky SDKs — pure Python with `requests`

---

## 🔧 Setup Instructions

### Option 1: Quick Install via Script

The installer handles:

✔️ Python virtual environment setup
✔️ Dependency installation
✔️ Shell alias creation
✔️ Initial configuration template


```bash
git clone https://github.com/ngroegli/askai-cli
cd askai-cli
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

After installation, edit your configuration:

```bash
nano ~/.askai_config.yml
```

Example content:

```yaml
api_key: "your_openrouter_api_key"
default_model: "openai/gpt-4o"
default_vision_model: "anthropic/claude-3-opus-20240229"
base_url: "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1/chat/completions"
```

Reload your shell:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc   # or ~/.bashrc
```

---

### Option 2: Manual Installation

For manual control:

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ngroegli/askai-cli
cd askai-cli
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Copy the example config:

```bash
cp config/config_example.yml ~/.askai_config.yml
```

Edit `~/.askai_config.yml` with your API key and preferences.

5. Create an alias for easy access:

```bash
alias askai="python /full/path/to/askai/askai.py"
```

Add this to your `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, or `.profile`, then reload your shell:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc   # or ~/.bashrc
```

Alternatively, for true system-wide installation:

```bash
chmod +x askai.py
sudo ln -s /full/path/to/askai/askai.py /usr/local/bin/askai
```

---

## ⚡ Usage Examples

### General Question

```bash
askai -q "What is the capital of Japan?"
```

### Interpret Previous Terminal Output

```bash
ls -la | askai -q "Explain this output."
```

### Use Pattern Files as Additional Context

```bash
askai -up log_interpretation -i /var/log/auth.log
```

Pattern files live inside the `patterns/` folder and contain reusable instructions for the AI.

### Analyze an Image

```bash
askai -img /path/to/image.jpg -q "What can you see in this image?"
```

You can also analyze images directly from URLs:

```bash
askai -img-url https://example.com/image.jpg -q "What can you see in this image?"
```

The tool automatically uses a vision-capable model when images are provided. Supported image formats include JPG, PNG, GIF, and WebP.

### Analyze a PDF Document

```bash
askai -pdf /path/to/document.pdf -q "Summarize this document."
```

You can also analyze PDFs directly from URLs:

```bash
askai -pdf-url https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf -q "Summarize this document."
```

Note: The PDF URL must point directly to a valid PDF file that's publicly accessible. This feature requires a model that supports PDF processing (such as Claude models) and will automatically configure the necessary plugins.

Sends the PDF content directly to the AI for analysis using the format specified in the OpenRouter documentation. The file must have a `.pdf` extension to be processed as a PDF document. If a non-PDF file is provided, it will be treated as a regular text file.

### List Available Pattern Files

```bash
askai --list-patterns
```

Displays all files available under `patterns/`.

### Error Analysis with Previous Output

```bash
cat nonexistent.txt 2>&1 | askai -q "Why can't I read this file?"
```

### Save Response to File (Markdown)

```bash
askai -q "List 5 AI use cases" -o output.md -f md
```

### Override Default Model

```bash
askai -q "Tell me a joke" -m "anthropic/claude-3-opus-2024-06-20"
```

## ☢️ Security Note

Your API key is stored locally in `~/.askai_config.yml`. Ensure this file is excluded from version control with `.gitignore`.

---

## 🧩 Requirements

* Python 3.7+
* Dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

---

## 📄 License

[Please refer to GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 3, 29 June 2007](./LICENSE)
