patterns/data_visualization.md, before:

# Pattern: Data Visualization

## Purpose:

The purpose of `data_visualization` is to analyze and visualize data from various sources, helping users to gain insights through graphical representations.

## Functionality:

* Import and process data from different source formats (CSV, JSON, Excel)
* Generate visualizations appropriate for the data structure and question being answered
* Support multiple visualization types (bar charts, line graphs, scatter plots, etc.)
* Provide analysis of key trends, outliers, and patterns in the data
* Customize visualization style, colors, and annotations
* Export visualizations in various formats for sharing or embedding

## Pattern Inputs:

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: csv_file
    description: Path to a CSV file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: json_file
    description: Path to a JSON file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: excel_file
    description: Path to an Excel file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: chart_type
    description: Type of chart to create
    type: select
    options:
      - bar
      - line
      - scatter
      - pie
      - heatmap
    required: true
    group: visualization_options

  - name: include_3d
    description: Include 3D visualization
    type: select
    options:
      - "yes"
      - "no"
    required: false
    default: "no"
    group: visualization_options

  - name: color_theme
    description: Color theme for visualization
    type: select
    options:
      - default
      - dark
      - light
      - colorblind_friendly
    required: false
    default: "default"
    group: visualization_options

  - name: title
    description: Title for the visualization
    type: text
    required: false

input_groups:
  - name: data_source
    description: Select the data source for visualization
    required_inputs: 1

  - name: visualization_options
    description: Visualization options and styles
    required_inputs: 1
```

## Pattern Outputs:

```yaml
outputs:
  - name: result
    description: Raw visualization code (Mermaid, Chart.js, etc.)
    type: text
    required: true
    group: visualization_code
    example: |
      pie
        title Product Sales Distribution
        "Product A" : 35
        "Product B" : 25
        "Product C" : 40

  - name: visual_output
    description: Formatted visualization with analysis and insights
    type: markdown
    required: true
    group: analysis
    example: |
      # Data Visualization: Sales Performance
      
      ## Visualization
      ```mermaid
      pie
        title Product Sales Distribution
        "Product A" : 35
        "Product B" : 25
        "Product C" : 40
      ```
      
      ## Key Insights
      1. Product C accounts for 40% of total sales
      2. Sales show a seasonal pattern with peaks in Q4
      3. There's a strong correlation (r=0.87) between marketing spend and sales
      
      ## Recommendations
      * Focus marketing efforts on Product C which shows the strongest performance
      * Increase inventory planning for Q4 to meet seasonal demand
      * Consider bundling Products A and B to improve their market share
```

## Model Configuration:

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
  temperature: 0.7
  max_tokens: 2000
  
format_instructions: |
  **IMPORTANT**: Your response MUST follow this exact JSON format:
  
  ```json
  {
    "result": "THE_RAW_VISUALIZATION_CODE_HERE",
    "visual_output": "THE_FORMATTED_VISUALIZATION_WITH_ANALYSIS"
  }
  ```
  
  Where:
  - `result`: Contains ONLY the raw visualization code (e.g., Mermaid diagram syntax) without any markdown formatting
  - `visual_output`: Contains the complete visualization with markdown formatting, analysis, and insights
  
  Example:
  ```json
  {
    "result": "pie\n  title Product Sales Distribution\n  \"Product A\" : 35\n  \"Product B\" : 25\n  \"Product C\" : 40",
    "visual_output": "# Data Visualization: Sales Performance\n\n## Visualization\n```mermaid\npie\n  title Product Sales Distribution\n  \"Product A\" : 35\n  \"Product B\" : 25\n  \"Product C\" : 40\n```\n\n## Key Insights\n1. Product C accounts for 40% of total sales...(more analysis)..."
  }
  ```
```

Commit message:

Fixed some output behavior and hard coded cli formating. Also splitted question logic and pattern logic

patterns/data_visualization.md, after:

# Pattern: Data Visualization

## Purpose:

The purpose of `data_visualization` is to analyze and visualize data from various sources, helping users to gain insights through graphical representations.

## Functionality:

* Import and process data from different source formats (CSV, JSON, Excel)
* Generate visualizations appropriate for the data structure and question being answered
* Support multiple visualization types (bar charts, line graphs, scatter plots, etc.)
* Provide analysis of key trends, outliers, and patterns in the data
* Customize visualization style, colors, and annotations
* Export visualizations in various formats for sharing or embedding

## Pattern Inputs:

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: csv_file
    description: Path to a CSV file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: json_file
    description: Path to a JSON file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: excel_file
    description: Path to an Excel file containing data to visualize
    type: file
    required: true
    group: data_source

  - name: chart_type
    description: Type of chart to create
    type: select
    options:
      - bar
      - line
      - scatter
      - pie
      - heatmap
    required: true
    group: visualization_options

  - name: include_3d
    description: Include 3D visualization
    type: select
    options:
      - "yes"
      - "no"
    required: false
    default: "no"
    group: visualization_options

  - name: color_theme
    description: Color theme for visualization
    type: select
    options:
      - default
      - dark
      - light
      - colorblind_friendly
    required: false
    default: "default"
    group: visualization_options

  - name: title
    description: Title for the visualization
    type: text
    required: false

input_groups:
  - name: data_source
    description: Select the data source for visualization
    required_inputs: 1

  - name: visualization_options
    description: Visualization options and styles
    required_inputs: 1
```

## Pattern Outputs:

```yaml
results:
  - name: visualization_code
    description: Raw visualization code (Mermaid, Chart.js, etc.)
    type: text
    required: true
    group: visualization_code
    example: |
      pie
        title Product Sales Distribution
        "Product A" : 35
        "Product B" : 25
        "Product C" : 40

  - name: analysis
    description: Formatted visualization with analysis and insights
    type: markdown
    required: true
    group: analysis
    example: |
      # Data Visualization: Sales Performance
      
      ## Visualization
      ```mermaid
      pie
        title Product Sales Distribution
        "Product A" : 35
        "Product B" : 25
        "Product C" : 40
      ```
      
      ## Key Insights
      1. Product C accounts for 40% of total sales
      2. Sales show a seasonal pattern with peaks in Q4
      3. There's a strong correlation (r=0.87) between marketing spend and sales
      
      ## Recommendations
      * Focus marketing efforts on Product C which shows the strongest performance
      * Increase inventory planning for Q4 to meet seasonal demand
      * Consider bundling Products A and B to improve their market share
```

## Model Configuration:

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
  temperature: 0.7
  max_tokens: 2000
  
format_instructions: |
  When creating data visualizations:
  1. First analyze the data to identify key patterns, trends, and insights
  2. Then create an appropriate visualization based on the data structure and insights
  3. Include both the raw visualization code and a detailed analysis
  
  For your visualization:
  - Choose appropriate chart types for the data relationships
  - Use clear labeling and legends
  - Add meaningful titles and descriptions
  - Highlight key insights and patterns
```
