patterns/image_interpretation.md, before:

# Pattern: Image Interpretation

## Purpose:

The purpose of `image_interpretation` is to analyze and provide detailed descriptions of images from either local file paths or web URLs. This system helps users understand image content without needing visual access, supports accessibility needs, and extracts meaningful information from visual data.

## Functionality:

* Analyze images from local file paths or web URLs
* Provide detailed descriptions of image content, subjects, and context
* Identify key elements, objects, people, text, and other visual information
* Interpret the mood, style, and potential purpose of images
* Detect and describe relationships between elements in the image
* Support accessibility needs by offering comprehensive textual alternatives to visual content

## Pattern Inputs:

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: image_url
    description: URL to an image on the web
    type: text
    required: true
    alternative_to: image_file
    example: "https://example.com/sample-image.jpg"

  - name: image_file
    description: Path to the local image file
    type: image_file
    required: true
    alternative_to: image_url

  - name: detail_level
    description: Level of detail in the interpretation
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - brief
      - standard
      - detailed
    default: standard

  - name: focus_elements
    description: Specific elements to focus on in the interpretation
    type: text
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    example: "text content, brand logos, facial expressions"
```

## Pattern Outputs:

```yaml
outputs:
  - name: interpretation
    description: Detailed interpretation and description of the image
    type: text
    required: true
    example: |
      The image shows a coastal sunset scene with a silhouetted palm tree in the foreground. The sky displays vibrant orange and purple hues reflected in the calm ocean water. Two small boats can be seen on the horizon. The composition creates a peaceful, tropical atmosphere typical of vacation destinations.

  - name: key_elements
    description: List of key elements identified in the image
    type: markdown
    required: true
    example: |
      ## Key Elements Identified
      * Palm tree (silhouette in foreground)
      * Ocean/sea (extending to horizon)
      * Sunset (orange and purple sky)
      * Two small boats (on the horizon)
      * Beach (visible in lower portion)
      * Cloud formations (scattered across the sky)

  - name: metadata_analysis
    description: Analysis of available image metadata if present
    type: json
    required: false
    schema:
      type: object
      properties:
        dimensions: { type: string }
        format: { type: string }
        creation_time: { type: string }
        location_data: { type: string }
        camera_info: { type: string }
```

## Model Configuration:

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
  temperature: 0.2
  max_tokens: 2000
```

Commit message:

Introduction of input groups which replaces the alternative_to parameter in patterns

patterns/image_interpretation.md, after:

# Pattern: Image Interpretation

## Purpose:

The purpose of `image_interpretation` is to analyze and provide detailed descriptions of images from either local file paths or web URLs. This system helps users understand image content without needing visual access, supports accessibility needs, and extracts meaningful information from visual data.

## Functionality:

* Analyze images from local file paths or web URLs
* Provide detailed descriptions of image content, subjects, and context
* Identify key elements, objects, people, text, and other visual information
* Interpret the mood, style, and potential purpose of images
* Detect and describe relationships between elements in the image
* Support accessibility needs by offering comprehensive textual alternatives to visual content

## Pattern Inputs:

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: image_url
    description: URL to an image on the web
    type: text
    required: true
    group: image_source
    example: "https://example.com/sample-image.jpg"

  - name: image_file
    description: Path to the local image file
    type: image_file
    required: true
    group: image_source

  - name: detail_level
    description: Level of detail in the interpretation
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - brief
      - standard
      - detailed
    default: standard

  - name: focus_elements
    description: Specific elements to focus on in the interpretation
    type: text
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    example: "text content, brand logos, facial expressions"

input_groups:
  - name: image_source
    description: Select the source of the image to interpret
    required_inputs: 1
```

## Pattern Outputs:

```yaml
outputs:
  - name: interpretation
    description: Detailed interpretation and description of the image
    type: text
    required: true
    example: |
      The image shows a coastal sunset scene with a silhouetted palm tree in the foreground. The sky displays vibrant orange and purple hues reflected in the calm ocean water. Two small boats can be seen on the horizon. The composition creates a peaceful, tropical atmosphere typical of vacation destinations.

  - name: key_elements
    description: List of key elements identified in the image
    type: markdown
    required: true
    example: |
      ## Key Elements Identified
      * Palm tree (silhouette in foreground)
      * Ocean/sea (extending to horizon)
      * Sunset (orange and purple sky)
      * Two small boats (on the horizon)
      * Beach (visible in lower portion)
      * Cloud formations (scattered across the sky)

  - name: metadata_analysis
    description: Analysis of available image metadata if present
    type: json
    required: false
    schema:
      type: object
      properties:
        dimensions: { type: string }
        format: { type: string }
        creation_time: { type: string }
        location_data: { type: string }
        camera_info: { type: string }
```

## Model Configuration:

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
  temperature: 0.2
  max_tokens: 2000
```
