patterns/website_content_summary.md, before:

# Pattern: Website Content Summarization

# ========================================
# PROMPT CONTENT - PROVIDED TO AI DIRECTLY
# ========================================

## Purpose

You are a website content analyzer and summarizer. Your role is to analyze web content and provide clear, structured summaries with key insights, main topics, and actionable information extracted from the provided website(s).

## Functionality

* **Content Analysis** - Thoroughly analyze the structure, main themes, and key information from website content
* **Key Information Extraction** - Identify and extract the most important facts, data points, and insights
* **Structured Summarization** - Organize findings into clear, logical sections with proper headings
* **Actionable Insights** - Highlight practical takeaways, recommendations, or next steps based on the content
* **Source Citation** - Properly reference and cite information from the analyzed websites
* **Content Categorization** - Classify content type (news, documentation, blog, product page, etc.) and adjust analysis accordingly
* **Quality Assessment** - Evaluate the credibility and relevance of the information presented

# =======================================
# SYSTEM CONFIGURATION - NOT IN PROMPT
# =======================================

## System Inputs

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: website_url
    description: URL of the website to analyze and summarize
    type: url
    required: true

  - name: focus_areas
    description: Specific topics or areas to focus on during analysis (optional)
    type: text
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    default: "general overview"

  - name: summary_length
    description: Desired length of the summary
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - brief
      - detailed
      - comprehensive
    default: detailed

  - name: include_technical_details
    description: Whether to include technical specifications and detailed implementation information
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - "yes"
      - "no"
    default: "no"
```

## System Outputs

```yaml
outputs:
  - name: result
    description: Concise summary of the website content
    type: text
    required: true
    example: "The website example.com is a technology blog focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning. It features tutorials, industry news, and product reviews with an emphasis on practical applications for developers and business users."

  - name: visual_output
    description: Detailed structured summary of the website content
    type: markdown
    required: true
    example: |
      # Website Summary: TechAI Blog
      
      ## Overview
      TechAI Blog is a technology website focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning developments. The site features tutorials, industry news, and product reviews with an emphasis on practical applications for both developers and business users.
      
      ## Key Information
      * Updated weekly with new AI research and implementations
      * Contains 120+ tutorials on machine learning frameworks
      * Features interviews with leading AI researchers and practitioners
      * Includes downloadable code samples and datasets
      
      ## Main Topics Covered
      1. **Machine Learning Frameworks** - Detailed guides on PyTorch, TensorFlow, and scikit-learn
      2. **NLP Applications** - Tutorials on building text analysis and generation systems
      3. **Computer Vision** - Implementation guides for image recognition and processing
      4. **Industry Applications** - Case studies on AI in healthcare, finance, and retail
      
      ## Key Insights & Takeaways
      * The site emphasizes practical implementations over theoretical concepts
      * Content is suitable for intermediate to advanced developers
      * Most tutorials follow a project-based learning approach
      * Resources are regularly updated to match latest library versions
      
      ## Technical Details
      * Content includes Python code samples compatible with Python 3.8+
      * Jupyter notebook downloads available for most tutorials
      * Implementation examples for both CPU and GPU environments
      
      ## Actionable Next Steps
      * Begin with the "Getting Started" series for an introduction to core concepts
      * Subscribe to the weekly newsletter for latest updates
      * Join the community forum to ask questions and share projects
      
      ## Sources
      - [Original URL](https://example.com)
      - Analysis Date: August 6, 2025
```

## Model Configuration

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: openai/gpt-4o
  temperature: 0.3
  max_tokens: 4000
  web_plugin: true
  web_max_results: 8
  
format_instructions: |
  **IMPORTANT**: Your response MUST follow this exact JSON format:
  
  ```json
  {
    "result": "CONCISE_WEBSITE_SUMMARY",
    "visual_output": "DETAILED_STRUCTURED_SUMMARY"
  }
  ```
  
  Where:
  - `result`: Contains a concise plain text summary of the website (2-4 sentences)
  - `visual_output`: Contains the detailed structured summary with all sections in markdown format
  
  Example:
  ```json
  {
    "result": "The website example.com is a technology blog focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning.",
    "visual_output": "# Website Summary: TechAI Blog\n\n## Overview\nTechAI Blog is a technology website focused on...(more content)"
  }
  ```
```

# ================================================
# MODEL CONFIGURATION - FOR API CALL CONFIGURATION
# ================================================

## Model Configuration

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: openai/gpt-4o
  temperature: 0.3
  max_tokens: 4000
  web_plugin: true
  web_max_results: 8
```

Commit message:

Fixed some output behavior and hard coded cli formating. Also splitted question logic and pattern logic

patterns/website_content_summary.md, after:

# Pattern: Website Content Summarization

# ========================================
# PROMPT CONTENT - PROVIDED TO AI DIRECTLY
# ========================================

## Purpose

You are a website content analyzer and summarizer. Your role is to analyze web content and provide clear, structured summaries with key insights, main topics, and actionable information extracted from the provided website(s).

## Functionality

* **Content Analysis** - Thoroughly analyze the structure, main themes, and key information from website content
* **Key Information Extraction** - Identify and extract the most important facts, data points, and insights
* **Structured Summarization** - Organize findings into clear, logical sections with proper headings
* **Actionable Insights** - Highlight practical takeaways, recommendations, or next steps based on the content
* **Source Citation** - Properly reference and cite information from the analyzed websites
* **Content Categorization** - Classify content type (news, documentation, blog, product page, etc.) and adjust analysis accordingly
* **Quality Assessment** - Evaluate the credibility and relevance of the information presented

# =======================================
# SYSTEM CONFIGURATION - NOT IN PROMPT
# =======================================

## System Inputs

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: website_url
    description: URL of the website to analyze and summarize
    type: url
    required: true

  - name: focus_areas
    description: Specific topics or areas to focus on during analysis (optional)
    type: text
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    default: "general overview"

  - name: summary_length
    description: Desired length of the summary
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - brief
      - detailed
      - comprehensive
    default: detailed

  - name: include_technical_details
    description: Whether to include technical specifications and detailed implementation information
    type: select
    required: false
    ignore_undefined: true
    options:
      - "yes"
      - "no"
    default: "no"
```

## System Outputs

```yaml
results:
  - name: brief_summary
    description: Concise summary of the website content
    type: text
    required: true
    example: "The website example.com is a technology blog focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning. It features tutorials, industry news, and product reviews with an emphasis on practical applications for developers and business users."

  - name: detailed_analysis
    description: Detailed structured summary of the website content
    type: markdown
    required: true
    example: |
      # Website Summary: TechAI Blog
      
      ## Overview
      TechAI Blog is a technology website focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning developments. The site features tutorials, industry news, and product reviews with an emphasis on practical applications for both developers and business users.
      
      ## Key Information
      * Updated weekly with new AI research and implementations
      * Contains 120+ tutorials on machine learning frameworks
      * Features interviews with leading AI researchers and practitioners
      * Includes downloadable code samples and datasets
      
      ## Main Topics Covered
      1. **Machine Learning Frameworks** - Detailed guides on PyTorch, TensorFlow, and scikit-learn
      2. **NLP Applications** - Tutorials on building text analysis and generation systems
      3. **Computer Vision** - Implementation guides for image recognition and processing
      4. **Industry Applications** - Case studies on AI in healthcare, finance, and retail
      
      ## Key Insights & Takeaways
      * The site emphasizes practical implementations over theoretical concepts
      * Content is suitable for intermediate to advanced developers
      * Most tutorials follow a project-based learning approach
      * Resources are regularly updated to match latest library versions
      
      ## Technical Details
      * Content includes Python code samples compatible with Python 3.8+
      * Jupyter notebook downloads available for most tutorials
      * Implementation examples for both CPU and GPU environments
      
      ## Actionable Next Steps
      * Begin with the "Getting Started" series for an introduction to core concepts
      * Subscribe to the weekly newsletter for latest updates
      * Join the community forum to ask questions and share projects
      
      ## Sources
      - [Original URL](https://example.com)
      - Analysis Date: August 6, 2025
```

## Model Configuration

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: openai/gpt-4o
  temperature: 0.3
  max_tokens: 4000
  web_plugin: true
  web_max_results: 8
  
format_instructions: |
  When analyzing website content:
  
  1. First provide a concise summary of the website's purpose and main content (2-4 sentences)
  2. Then provide a detailed analysis with the following sections:
     - Overview: A comprehensive description of the website's purpose and content
     - Key Information: Important facts, figures, and data points
     - Main Topics Covered: Primary subject areas with brief descriptions
     - Key Insights & Takeaways: Important findings and conclusions
     - Actionable Next Steps: Recommendations based on the content
     - Sources: Reference to the original URL and analysis date
  
  Your analysis should be thorough, well-structured, and highlight the most relevant 
  information from the website to help users quickly understand the content.
```

# ================================================
# MODEL CONFIGURATION - FOR API CALL CONFIGURATION
# ================================================

## Model Configuration

```yaml
model:
  provider: openrouter
  model_name: openai/gpt-4o
  temperature: 0.3
  max_tokens: 4000
  web_plugin: true
  web_max_results: 8
```
